= rudil

* http://github.com/sMAshdot/rudil

== DESCRIPTION:

rudil is a dice library for ruby.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Roll dice with any number of sides.
Methods for single and multiple rolls.
Retrieve useful information about the rolls easily.

== SYNOPSIS:

=== simple rolling

  require 'rudil'
  die = Rudil::Die.new
or
  require 'rudil'
  include Rudil
  die = Die.new
creates a 6-sided die per default
but you could also use Die.new(n) to
obtain a die with more sides.

  die.roll
  => 3
returns the result of a single roll

  die.throw(5)
  => [6, 5, 3, 1, 3]
returns results of any number of rolls as array

=== analysing the results

start with a die
  die = Die.new(20)
  
collect the rolls in a throw
  throw = Throw.new( die.throw(5) )

Throw is a subclass of array with a few convenience methods added.
You can get information about
- the lowest roll
- the highest roll
- the mean
- the number of rolls above a certain value (or equal and above)
- the number of rolls below a certain value (or equal and below) FIX (code sample of usage)

== INSTALL:

assuming you installed gemcutter
* http://gemcutter.org
all you need to do is:
  gem install rudil

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Marc-Antonio Bisotti

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
